
12/05/20
In this chapter, we will learn how to control the thread behavior. We will look at attributes of thread.

Thread Limits:
Different thread limits exists for differnt implementation of threads.

Thread Atrributes:
pthread interface allows us to control the behavior of threads and
synchronization objects by setting various attributes associated with each object.

Synchronization Attributes:
Similar to threads attributes, synchronization objects have attributes.
In spin locks we have one attribute called the process-shared attribute.
Attributes of mutexes, reader–writer locks, condition variables,
and barriers are studied.

Mutex Attributes:
Mutex attributes are represented by a pthread_mutexattr_t structure.
The mutex attributes object is initialized to default values by pthread_mutexattr_init. The thread attributes object is destroyed by pthread_mutexattr_destroy. It supports three attributes process-shared,robust and type attribute.

Reader-Writer lock attributes:
It has locks similar to mutexes.
pthread_rwlockattr_init  is used to initialize a pthread_rwlockattr_t structure and
pthread_rwlockattr_destroy to deinitialize the structure. Only process-shared attribute is supported by read write attributes.

Condition Variable Attribute:
It supports only two attributes ,the process-shared attribute and the clock attribute.

Barrier Attribute:
We can use the pthread_barrierattr_init function
to initialize a barrier attributes object and the pthread_barrierattr_destroy
function to deinitialize a barrier attributes object. Only process shared attribute is defoned for Barriers.

13/05/20
Reentracy:
Threads acts similar to signal handlers when it comes to reentrancy. In both cases, multiple threads
of control can potentially call the same function at the same time.

Thread Specific Data:
It is also called as thread-private data, is a implementation for storing and
finding data associated with a particular thread. It is called data
thread-specific, or thread-private, because we need each thread to access its own separate
copy of the data, without worrying about synchronizing access with other threads.

Cancel option:
A thread can change its cancelability state by calling
pthread_setcancelstate.

Threads and Signals:
Signals are delivered to a single thread in the process. If the signal is related to a
hardware fault, the signal is usually sent to the thread whose action caused the event.
Other signals, on the other hand, are delivered to an arbitrary thread.

Threads and fork:
When a thread calls fork, a copy of the entire process address space is made for the
child. The child is an entirely different process from the parent, and as long as neither
one makes changes to its memory contents, copies of the memory pages can be shared between parent and child.

Thread and I/O:
pread and pwrite functions are helpful in a multithreaded environment, because all threads in a process share the same
file descriptors.

