Race Condition:-
A race condition occurs when multiple processes/threads use same variable at the same time. For example if there
are two processes P and C both working with a single variable. Now if the 1st process and 2nd process do their
operation on the value, they are in race conditon. The value updated by most recent process will be preserved
and the value updated by former variable will be overwritten.

This can be overcome by delaying execution of processes but this approach waste cpu time.

Exec Function:-
One use of the fork function is to create a new process (the child) that then causes another
program to be executed by calling one of the exec functions.
exec functions initiates new programs
There are seven different exec functions. 
When the exec is called the process ID doesn't change and the new program inherits properties of calling
process.

exec library functions and system call:-
In many UNIX system implementations, only one of these seven functions, execve, is a system call within the 
kernel.The other six are just library functions that eventually invoke this system call.


Changing User IDs and Group IDs:
In the UNIX System, privileges and access control are on user and group IDs. When programs need additional
privileges or access to unallowed resources, they need to change their user or group ID to an ID that has the
appropriate privilege or access.
We should try to use the least-privilege model ie our programs should use the least privilege necessary to 
accomplish any given task. This reduces the risk that security might be compromised by a malicious user trying
to trick our programs into using their privileges in unintended ways.

setuid and setgid
We can set the real user ID and effective user ID with the setuid function and set the real group ID and the effective
group ID with the setgid function.

setreuid & setregid functions
An unprivileged user can always swap between the real user ID and the effective user ID. 
This allows a set-user-ID program to swap to the user’s normal permissions and swap back again later for set-user-ID operations.

seteuid and setegid functions
An unprivileged user can set its effective user ID to either its real user ID or its saved set-user-ID.
For a privileged user, only the effective user ID is set to uid. 
This differs from setuid function, which changes all three user IDs.